README.md, before:

# Laravel Subscription Preset
<p>
    <a href="https://packagist.org/packages/netbums/laravel-subscription-preset"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Work--in--progress-yellow" alt="Total Downloads"></a>
    <a href="https://packagist.org/packages/netbums/laravel-subscription-preset"><img src="https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/netbums/laravel-subscription-preset" alt="Total Downloads"></a>
    <a href="https://packagist.org/packages/netbums/laravel-subscription-preset"><img src="https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/netbums/laravel-subscription-preset" alt="Latest Stable Version"></a>
    <a href="https://packagist.org/packages/netbums/laravel-subscription-preset"><img src="https://img.shields.io/packagist/php-v/netbums/laravel-subscription-preset" alt="Latest Stable Version"></a>
</p> 

## About
This is a Laravel Preset Package that will quickly get your app up and running with subscriptions via Stripe and Laravel Cashier. 

It comes with a opinionated set of dependencies/requirements, such as Laravel Livewire, Laravel Cashier, PestPHP. It will also set up Vite to have auto-reload when changes occur to .blade.php files.


> ### Caution
> This package is intended to be used on a **FRESH** install of Laravel.
> Do **NOT** use on an existing Laravel, as it will override some files.

## Installation

You can install the package via composer:

```bash
composer require netbums/laravel-subscription-preset
```
After installing, you can run the installer by running:

### Copying the files
```bash
php artisan laravel-subscription-preset
```
This will copy all stubs from the preset into your Laravel project.

### Install npm packages
```
npm install
```
Then run either `npm run dev` to start the Vite server or `npm run build` compile production ready assets.

### Configure .env file
Next you should copy the following into your `.env` file, and set the Stripe variables with your own data:

```
CASHIER_MODEL=App\Models\User
STRIPE_KEY=pk_test_XXXXXXXXXXXXXX
STRIPE_SECRET=sk_test_XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
CASHIER_PAYMENT_NOTIFICATION=Laravel\Cashier\Notifications\ConfirmPayment
```
Get the values for the Stripe keys in your [Stripe Dashboard](https://dashboard.stripe.com/)

### Configure Plan seeder
Inside  `database\seeders\DatabaseSeeder.php` you should set up your Plans.
```php
use App\Models\Plan;

Plan::query()->create([
    'title' => 'Pro - $99 / month',
    'slug' => 'monthly',
    'stripe_id' => 'price_XXXXXXXXXXXXX'
]);
Plan::query()->create([
    'title' => 'Pro - $999 / year',
    'slug' => 'yearly',
    'stripe_id' => 'price_XXXXXXXXXXXXX'
]);
```

## Testing

```bash
composer test
```

## Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information on what has changed recently.

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/mortenebak/.github/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## Security Vulnerabilities

Please review [our security policy](../../security/policy) on how to report security vulnerabilities.

## Credits

- [Morten Bak](https://github.com/mortenebak)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)
  
The [Tall Stack](https://github.com/laravel-frontend-presets/tall) included in this preset is created by:
- [Dan Harrin](https://github.com/DanHarrin)
- [Liam Hammett](https://github.com/imliam)
- [Ryan Chandler](https://github.com/ryangjchandler)
- [Tailwind UI](https://tailwindui.com) for the default authentication and pagination views


## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

Commit message:

update readme with usage info

README.md, after:

# Laravel Subscription Preset
<p>
    <a href="https://packagist.org/packages/netbums/laravel-subscription-preset"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Work--in--progress-yellow" alt="Total Downloads"></a>
    <a href="https://packagist.org/packages/netbums/laravel-subscription-preset"><img src="https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/netbums/laravel-subscription-preset" alt="Total Downloads"></a>
    <a href="https://packagist.org/packages/netbums/laravel-subscription-preset"><img src="https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/netbums/laravel-subscription-preset" alt="Latest Stable Version"></a>
    <a href="https://packagist.org/packages/netbums/laravel-subscription-preset"><img src="https://img.shields.io/packagist/php-v/netbums/laravel-subscription-preset" alt="Latest Stable Version"></a>
</p> 

## About
This is a Laravel Preset Package that will quickly get your app up and running with subscriptions via Stripe and Laravel Cashier. 

It comes with a opinionated set of dependencies/requirements, such as Laravel Livewire, Laravel Cashier, PestPHP. It will also set up Vite to have auto-reload when changes occur to .blade.php files.


> ### Caution
> This package is intended to be used on a **FRESH** install of Laravel.
> Do **NOT** use on an existing Laravel, as it will override some files.

## Installation

You can install the package via composer:

```bash
composer require netbums/laravel-subscription-preset
```
After installing, you can run the installer by running:

### Copying the files
```bash
php artisan laravel-subscription-preset
```
This will copy all stubs from the preset into your Laravel project.

### Install npm packages
```
npm install
```
Then run either `npm run dev` to start the Vite server or `npm run build` compile production ready assets.

### Configure .env file
Next you should copy the following into your `.env` file, and set the Stripe variables with your own data:

```
CASHIER_MODEL=App\Models\User
STRIPE_KEY=pk_test_XXXXXXXXXXXXXX
STRIPE_SECRET=sk_test_XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
CASHIER_PAYMENT_NOTIFICATION=Laravel\Cashier\Notifications\ConfirmPayment
```
Get the values for the Stripe keys in your [Stripe Dashboard](https://dashboard.stripe.com/)

### Configure Plan seeder
Inside  `database\seeders\DatabaseSeeder.php` you should set up your Plans.
```php
use App\Models\Plan;

Plan::query()->create([
    'title' => 'Pro - $99 / month',
    'slug' => 'monthly',
    'stripe_id' => 'price_XXXXXXXXXXXXX'
]);
Plan::query()->create([
    'title' => 'Pro - $999 / year',
    'slug' => 'yearly',
    'stripe_id' => 'price_XXXXXXXXXXXXX'
]);
```

## Usage
### Using middleware
`subscribed` and `not.subscribed`.

### Blade directives
```php
@if(auth()->user()->subscribed())
```

### @can directive
Two policies exist. You can add your own custom in `\App\Policies\SubscriptionPolicy.php`
```php
@can('cancel', auth()->user()->subscription())
@can('resume', auth()->user()->subscription())
```

## Testing

```bash
composer test
```

## Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information on what has changed recently.

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/mortenebak/.github/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## Security Vulnerabilities

Please review [our security policy](../../security/policy) on how to report security vulnerabilities.

## Credits

- [Morten Bak](https://github.com/mortenebak)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)
  
The [Tall Stack](https://github.com/laravel-frontend-presets/tall) included in this preset is created by:
- [Dan Harrin](https://github.com/DanHarrin)
- [Liam Hammett](https://github.com/imliam)
- [Ryan Chandler](https://github.com/ryangjchandler)
- [Tailwind UI](https://tailwindui.com) for the default authentication and pagination views


## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.
